Hello guys in this lesson you're going to start learning about one of the most important files of a
word pressing the functions that speech be file at the end of this lesson.
You're going to be able to load and establish it within your scene.
And the most important thing the right way and the last lesson.
We just started creating the out splitting our index into three parts.
We created the header footer and made our next that bitch be more than Nemec including the functions
that called both the header and the soon to start lesson.
Let's just point out all of our sections so that we can later style our theme.
Let's start with Hetter that's typing here.
Social icons.
And here search Lowville
menu.
Let's save this now and open the next file.
Here you're going to type in slide
services
here in the middle.
We have the side bar
news
map.
OK.
Now you can save it now in our footer.
Let's create a paragraph
rather usually include the stylesheet using only.
Now we must simply create a CSSA folder organizer files in there and find a link tag for our WordPress
thing.
Let's do this within our lone WP folder which is the folder of our thing.
So let's create a new folder here named CSX
inside DSS folder.
I'm going to create a file called template Dotsie access is down.
You can choose a different name if you want.
OK.
There are several ways to load a stylesheet into WordPress but I'm going to show you the most recommended
form the most appropriate way is to create a file named functions that should be within our field.
If you look at other films such as the 2015 you see that it has a functions that PSP file as well.
If you open that file you'll see that it has several functions inside the function that P2P file works
as if it was a kind of plugin.
However unlike plugins which work on the whole WordPress site that is it affects all things at once.
Functions that PC only relates to the thing that is currently active.
So whatever function I create within that function that piece B when the 20:15 is active will only apply
to the 2015 theme.
Likewise the function that BHP file We're going to create will only be valid for the learn W.P. thing.
What makes this function that this file so different.
What is this function.
Well it can contain calls for our stylesheets scripts sidebars you're going to create menu functions
video image settings whatever different post formats we may have.
And we can also create our own specific functions in lower than in wordpress.
It's a very versatile file.
It always come in handy.
And I love working with it.
If you want to learn a little bit more you can always do that by opening the function of that piece
B file of another thing.
For now we're going to create our own file to load our own style sheets.
But before I talk about what makes all of this magic happen I will try to explain more or less the dynamics
of this whole process.
Well the loading process of a WordPress site is a bit different from most Web sites.
It's not just a simple process since it is a companion by several moments of execution where press calls
them action hooks and some of these folks are assigned in the W.P. settings file.
If you open that file and look for the term do underscore action you'll see Sabur of these hooks for
example set up Thien is fired before the theme is loaded.
There are two others like after set up thing in it.
W.P. loaded hook that interests us the most in this lesson is W.P. and to use scripts that hook is inside
the script loader that pupae file.
Intern these files included on line 192 of the W.P. settings file and now we have a hook which will
help us fire the function responsible for our starship's.
But let's understand this better in practice.
That's great.
A new file in subline text and named functions.
Not huge.
This file will be created inside the lone WP folder and before any doubt arises.
Yes this file must be called functionals dot Peachi.
Don't forget the letter S at the end of the name again.
Let's just start file with the PDP opening tag but notice that you're just going to open the tag but
it won't close it.
And now after that let's create a function as you know a PDB function starts with the word function
followed by the function's name and our function's name.
Will the load underscore scripts working on the Wordpress function that insert our stylesheets into
queue.
Is the WP anti-EU style function when this function is read.
It will load our styles one underneath the other.
You can see this later in the source code of the page but its function to do something we want to pass
some parameters to it.
The first one is a handle and what will the file handle be in the row.
Since we have already created a file called template that says this will be our handle but it could
be anything as long as we don't repeat those names.
That's OK.
The second parameter is used to print out the path to our file.
There was a WordPress function to that and it's called Get template directory.
You are I am the Usenet function.
We need only say that this style sheet is inside the SS folder and is named late dad.
C Ss the concatenated function to the string for Slash C Ss for Slash template that C Ss.
The third parameter says whether or not our starship has any dependency.
That is if there's any other stylesheet that needs to be loaded before our template that says that it's
again.
If it depends on some other file.
If so we need to type out the handle of this fire inside an array.
For example if there is a style sheet called data we would pass its name inside an array.
Since we have no dependency we can leave only the array empty and other arguments that function needs
its version.
This argument is not required.
We can type for example onepoint all which should be our stylesheet version.
The version text would be concatenated with the file name.
And again we can see the version number in the source code.
The last parameter is used to let WordPress know what kind of media this SS file refers to.
It could be print screen or all.
All would be relative to all media types and it's the most common then you robot.
But it's not enough to just declare the function no functions runs out magically within WordPress.
We must first add this function to an action associating it with some Haug.
Therefore you're going to associate our load scripts function with a whole code W.P. and use scripts
so that it can actually be executed giant.
The hook to the function.
We're going to use another WordPress function called add underscore action your city's future Dean used
many times in wordpress press.
First we have to inform the name of the actual hook which in our case will be W.P. and q scripts and
then the function that is going to be executed which is the one we just created.
So what's going on here.
In summary we had created our last scripts function inside it.
Recall the function that queues our starship's called Played Dotsie SS whose path is this one here.
It has no dependency its version is 1.0 and it applies to all types of media.
The actual function adds and you action within the Wordpress execution then the Wordpress page follows
and as soon as it loads we have several hooks available one of those hooks is called W.P. and scripts.
We take advantage of this hook and have a function executed on it called load on the score scripts which
in turn includes our starship's Wow amazing but none of this is possible if you don't require a function
call W.P. underscore head within our head or that page be file it needs to be placed before the head
tag ends.
So let's open the page bit like here.
Antiope and W.P. underscore had without this function no scripts or starship's including those used
by WordPress plugins would be loaded.
We can now open our Fernan and see if everything is working.
That's really the Bache
and look here we have all the markup we made if inspect the code you'll see that several things that
were not here before now are loaded.
Check this out.
All this code was loaded because of the W.P. had function.
Let's see if our station is in diskless
and look at this template dobbed see SS with its handle.
It's back to version one point.
All that well-defined type of media and we can finally test our stoush it out.
Let's go through the rules for our top bar.
Let's just set the color red and the hide for that area
so background red.
White 70 pixels.
Let's once again reload the home page and it works perfectly.
Now we can style the rest of the page with no problem.
Well that was of this lesson in the next lesson you're going and learn how to load our scripts and more
let's learn in practice how to integrate bootstrap into the theme.
Something that many people struggle Aledo.
So don't miss the next class.
Until then happy coding.